# June 30, 2026

style guidelines and submission guidelines on canvas

## Constructor

Special function to initialize an object. Always has the same name as a class

ex:
```
time24::time24(int h, int m)
{
    hour = h;
    minute = m;
    normalizeTime();
}
```

* No return type & no void
* Must not return any value
* Must be a public function
* Usually not called explicitly

If there is no defined constructor, the default constructor is called -> for a custom class, this does nothing. The members may be initialized with a default value.

## Constant Member Functions
Declare a constant member function

```
void writeTime() const;
coid time24::writeTime() const {}

int getHour() const;
int time24::getHour() const {}

int getMinute() const;
int time24::getMinute() const {}
```

Compiler flag, inside a `const` declared function, the data members of the class cannot be changed. Software engineering style -> everyone knows what this function can and cannot do.

**Constructors and destructors cannot be declared as `const`** 

## Inline Code

Declare short member functions within the class definition

```
class time24
{
    public:
        ...
        int getHour() const {return hour;}; // <- no separate function implementation
        ...
    private:
        ...
    
};
```

Use inline declarations with very short functions only. The compiler will replace calls to an inline function. The tradeoff here is between runtime efficiency and code size (what)

## Review of Classes

```
class Count
{
    public:
        Count (int val);
        void print () const { cout << x << endl; }; // <- inline declaration
        void set (int val);
    
    private:
        int x;
};

Count::Count (int val) // <- normal implementation
{
    set (val);
}

Void Count::set (int val) 
{
    x = val;
}
```

## Copying and Passing Objects
A non-member function to clear a count object

```
void clear (Count aCount)
{
    aCount.set(0)
}
int main
{
    Count counter1 (5);
    clear (counter1);
    counter1.print(); // <- what happens here A: 5 will print to terminal
}
```

In the current implementation of `clear` the count object is passed by value, meaning a shallow copy of `counter1` was generated and used, not `counter1` itself.

**Correct Implementation**

```
void clear (Count &aCount)
{
    aCount.set(0);
};
```

> &: address of

Passes by reference, rather than by value. Here, any changes applied to `aCount` inside `clear` will apply to `counter1`.

## Pass by Reference
Proceed the parameter name by `&` in function declaration. This passes the location of the actual argument

ex:
```
void squareByValue (int a)
{
    a=a*a;
}
void squareByReference (int &cRef)
{
    cRef = cRef*cRef;
}
int main ()
{
    int x = 2;
    int z = 3;
    squareByValue (x); //x=2
    squareByReference (z); //z = 9
}
```

## Pass by Const Reference

Pass a parameter
* Not make a shallow copy (space efficiency)
* Not modify this parameter value

**Const Reference**
```
time24 time24::duration(const time24 &t)
{
    ...
}
```

Member function const: any data members of the object are not changed
Restrictions
* Const objects can only call const member functions
* A const object can not be passed by reference